---
slug: link-to-the-past
tracks:
  [
	{ name: "Overworld", artist: "Koji Kondo", 
	url: "/audio/linktothepast/Overworld.mp3", cover: "/audio/linktothepast/Cover.jpg" },{ name: "Kakariko Village", artist: "Koji Kondo", 
	url: "/audio/linktothepast/Kakariko Village.mp3", cover: "/audio/linktothepast/Cover.jpg" },{ name: "Cave", artist: "Koji Kondo", 
	url: "/audio/linktothepast/Cave.mp3", cover: "/audio/linktothepast/Cover.jpg" },
	{ name: "Sanctuary Dungeon", artist: "Koji Kondo", 
	url: "/audio/linktothepast/Sanctuary-Dungeon.mp3", cover: "/audio/linktothepast/Cover.jpg" },{ name: "Ending", artist: "Koji Kondo", 
	url: "/audio/linktothepast/Ending.mp3", cover: "/audio/linktothepast/Cover.jpg" },
  ]
---

<p><p>One of the byproducts of writing these OST reviews long, LONG after fellow guild members have already rated and reviewed the game is knowing the breadth of material ahead of me as I plink and plunk my way through each game. The sheer amount of games that lie in wait for me seem to stack themselves purposefully one on top of another forming a loaded rifle pointed directly at my face and it dawns on me; I have to decide to either type a game title with "OST" tacked on the end into youtube at some point or work up the courage to wipe away the tears and pull that trigger. Thankfully, this is the first soundtrack I get to review that belongs to a game I've actually played before! I'll also add that at present time, of the 20 games that gameclub has played it's still the ONLY one I have played as well! I promise that I do play video games and have for my entire life but I believe my cohorts are on a mission to prove otherwise through careful curation and sheer malice. Maybe it's up to me to find the right games from my childhood and connect them with the people of today, to find a link to the past. <br> <br>Possibly more surprising than this being the only gameclub game I actually have history with is the fact that this is the only Zelda game I've ever owned or played. With that said I'm gonna have to try taking off my nostalgia glasses moving forward and just talk about the music like the card carrying, degree holding tenured expert I am... LOL SIIIIIKE THAT OVERWORLD SHIT BAANGS. This song might be the singular reason I started to pay close attention to video game music and not just because you end up hearing this track for hours and hours as a kid wandering around the map having no clue what to do. Instantly iconic, I could probably let the dam loose for a few paragraphs on this track alone but since I'm already here throwing out praise like its my back after laundry day I might as well toss some the menu music's way. So much intrigue, mystery and suspense packed into a 23 second loop it almost doesnt feel possible and yet the sound choice alone is genius in making so much out of so little. Sound choice was crucial for this era of game music with the limited hardware it was very easy to fill out the mix with sounds that just clashed or sat funny on the ears and yet all across this soundtrack very few times does that happen. The worst offender of this is definitely the Storm version of Turned into a Rabbit, and I know. I know. There's a storm brewing and the wind is blowing but 16 bit wind just doesnt greet the ears fondly, and the little farty quick notes dont build into anything that redeems the track. <br> <br>While many, including myself mostly associate sounds of adventure and wonder with the music crafted for Zelda; beautiful tracks like Kakariko Village, Dark World, and of course the Overworld theme, I was simultaneously delighted with how well the dark and foreboding tracks worked in creating a creepy sometimes frantic atmosphere. The three that stand out here for me are Church, Cave and Santuary Dungeon with Sanctuary Dungeon grabbing me immediately with the delays in the intro that work to build into a genuinely well composed piece of audible candy. A real tasty bite you can chew on for many replays. Which would maybe make it closer to gum. But its not gum. I'll just call it taffy and move on. Cave is just wonky as hell and I love it for that, shoutout Koji Kondo the composer for using what sounds like a water drop mixed with a gun cocking as a snare hit. Incredible. Many fond memories of going in and out of areas just hear some of these songs start their cycle again. Or was it the original Legend of Zelda I owned and played growing up? Whatever I hit stuff with swords and grooved to the music. This isnt helping the "I actually do play video games" narrative and I recognize that. <br> <br>While not fitting neatly in a group to wax poetic about I do have a couple more tracks to highlight, those being Forest and the Battle with Ganon music. I just love melody of that high tone synth fluttering away overtop of the earthy foundation laid beneath it on Forest. I'm struck with the feeling of actually walking around a forest that is truly alive and energetic and it's energy that we find in the Ganon battle as well. On top of the plucky ascending runs and tense chords is some fun flourishing in the percussion with quick drum fills that give the whole piece some life and immediacy (queue the wonderfully triumphent Ending theme).. but that's just what someone needs to beat a game like A Link to the Past, a game which I have definitely played and owned and loved and have many positive and real memories of. A game no one could forget if they spent a part of their childhood playing it and I'm sure the original Legend of Zelda is a good game too and absolutely was not the actual game I played because that would make me insane and probably the least trustworthy person to ever write a review of piece of media and publish it for the world to consume and digest. Thank you and god bless america.<br><br>-Brandon</p>
